We're announcing the open source release
of Common Ground about 4 years ago. It
was us dreaming up this idea of a more
decentralized, more community-owned
Discord. And we've come pretty far. But
before we rehash the history of this
project, Yan, I would love for you to
tell us about the key features that you
and the team developed over the last
four years.
>> Florian, thank you very much. What you
see here is us having a broadcast call
on Common Ground, which is similar to
Twitter spaces in a sense. This is made
for every use case you can imagine where
you get in touch with people. We do have
an events functionality that aligns
pretty well with our broadcast feature.
I can schedule an event. I could also
restrict the event so that it's only
visible or joinable by certain roles.
You also want to manage channels. You
want to manage who can see what, who can
access what. We do have a role system
for that. If you go to community
settings, roles and permissions, members
is the general role that everybody has
and guests is the role that is public.
So somebody who has not yet joined your
community can see only things that have
been set up for guests to see. We have
multiple other roles and we also have
claimable roles. These are a bit
special. These claimable roles are
actually token gated. The token holder
role for example has selected the common
ground token as the gating token. And
now you can set an amount and anyone who
has a wallet connected and on one of
these connected wallets the common
ground token exists can now
automatically go to the roles page and
claim this role. You see that we have
lots of chat channels here and these
here are marked with a little lock.
These are gated channels that are not
accessible to everyone. And for example,
the whales chat channel is only
accessible to CG token whales moderators
and the core team. And token holders can
preview the channel but not actually see
the content of the channel. So if I
create a new token, you see that common
ground supports multiple blockchains.
basically the most common ERC token
standards as well as LSP token standards
because common ground also supports the
Luxo blockchain which has been a close
partner for us over many years now. So
if you select a chain and then input a
token contract the back end
automatically detects what token it is.
You could now save this token, add it to
your community and after that you can
gate all your roles and permissions with
this specific new token. Last but not
least, you can also extend your
community with various new functions.
Either use existing plugins that you can
discover in our app store or you can add
your own plugins. Adding plugins is
really easy. You just go to the
community settings, plugins, create
plugin. And you see you can give a
plug-in a name and a URL. And this URL
can be any website that is embeddible as
an iframe. Scroll further down. You can
see that this plug-in can also be made
discoverable on the plug-in app store.
So other communities can also use your
plug-in and you can also allow plugins
to give people new roles in your
community. You can integrate plug-in
functionality for example payments or
other blockchain functionality and then
your back end will be able to manage
user roles in your community just by
being embedded in your community as an
iframe. This is pretty amazing because
you can do lots of crazy use cases with
this and we are constantly expanding the
API for plugins. Rest assured, we will
build even more functionality for
plugins in the near future.
>> Thank you again for showing us the
platform. You can see it's a really big
project with many features very specific
to our app. I hope that there is a lot
of value for people to work with our
open source codebase and contribute and
help improve Quashbox and add new
features. At least that's that's what we
hope. We feel the platform is quite
mature given that it's still of course
in some sort of beta phase. Let's be
let's be honest there. But we have a
pretty solid user base and most
importantly we launched a governance
token for the common ground project. Our
vision was always that unlike Discord or
other traditional social media common
ground should be userowned and we think
a governance token can be a big step in
that direction. So that was a big
airdrop to all the users that have been
on this app with us for the last four
years rewarding them for showing up,
joining calls, writing posts, and I hope
a lot of people got got happy with the
airdrop they received. And of course,
there's a lot more to say. We also wrote
a bunch of articles. If you go to the
Common Ground community, you can just
scroll through our blog posts that
started right when we launched the
project, and you can see pretty much
every development stage that we took
over the last four years. That's a
pretty cool way to dive deeper. Yeah,
it's it's ready to move to its next
chapter. So, we will open source the
entire codebase which will allow anyone
to host their own version of Common
Ground to make contributions, share back
to the public so everybody can benefit
from these improvements. But since I'm
not the tech guy, Yan, maybe you want to
quickly give your thoughts on the open
sourcing.
>> I mean, it's pretty exciting. We have
been working a long time on this
codebase and the code base is obviously
not perfect. No code base of any
open-source release ever was. But we're
still very excited to share this code
because the world needs more open-source
social network or social alternatives to
actually own the infrastructure of our
communication and I think that's a
really important step.
>> Fully agree on this. We plan to open
source under HGPL. It's the strongest
copy left model that's currently out
there. It's widely accepted in the open
source community and I think it will
ensure that common ground will develop
further with public contributions and
sort of oriented towards the common
good. That's currently the plan. The
other big step besides the open sourcing
is that we want to do what some people
in the research community call exit to
community. the entire governance
infrastructure around common ground
should move into the common ground da
which will be an onchain organization.
It doesn't exist yet, but we've done our
research and we're about to set it up
probably in December, which will mean
that all the token holders, which is
currently about 180, 190 people all over
the world, they will become the stewards
of the project with power to govern the
treasury that consists mostly of CG
tokens and some crypto, but they will
also be stewards of the common ground
license. So I mentioned we want a
license under HPL but maybe in the
future there will be some change for
whatever reason the community believes
it should be a different license. So all
of those core functions will be moved
and handed over to the community. We
hope that there will be a lot of
interest in governing common ground. We
hope that it will be easy to facilitate
with all these plugins which will
hopefully make the governance of all of
this a really cool extension of the
platform itself. Yeah, besides that we
have another strategic goal in mind
obviously now as just two among many
participants. So I think it's important
and exciting to hear about it quickly
from Yan who's the core person behind
this new strategic direction. I think it
is really a great match to bring games
into common ground. Gaming communities
can organize around their game, organize
with the developers on self-owned
infrastructure and due to the open
nature of the platform, it is very easy
for projects to customize the experience
for their community around their game or
their content. Some magic components
come together here. All right, that was
a quick 360 of Common Ground's past,
Common Ground's future, and the product
that we've built. We hope it's exciting
for you. We hope you're interested in
becoming an open-source contributor to
Common Ground. Be it as a you know
governance person, be it as a developer
on the codebase, be it as someone that
helps to write documentation. There are
a lot of ways that we think people can
bring value to this emerging community
and emerging project. The DAO has a big
stash of tokens that it will use to
reward all contributors, be it technical
or non-technical. And we hope that this
way we can really continue building this
project into a successful, widely used,
well-maintained open-source platform for
the future web. And maybe Yan you want
to share sort of your vision around say
many people host their own instance of
common ground how we will bring all of
that together in a sort of a
decentralized network because I think
this is the missing piece.
>> Absolutely. Yeah. First of all the first
layer of decentralization is that anyone
can host their own common ground
instance. So this way we have
decentralized instances that are hosted
by several people that can be connected
on various levels. One direction that we
could take would be to build like a
common ground protocol specifically made
for common ground platforms to
communicate with each other. The other
way is connecting common ground to
existing protocols. There are many
existing protocols out there. For
example, for chat this would be matrix
or IRC. For articles and posts and
social content this would be activity
pub. There are several protocols out
there by supporting which common ground
could become part of already existing
decentralized structures. Maybe we don't
want to build our own here but at the
same time we want to connect to all
these decentralized platforms and
projects so that common ground becomes
like the social hub that connects it
all. The second step of decentralization
is the plug-in infrastructure because
everybody can host their own plugins or
their own content or their own
functionality for common ground and
integrated into the platform. Basically,
the platform becomes very open to
community generated content and
community managed projects. And the
third way how common ground can be
centralized is that you also want to be
able to embed common ground into
existing projects. For example, if you
have a website, then it would be really
nice if you could integrate your
community activity feed. If you could
integrate community chats, you might be
able to integrate common ground even in
your Android or iOS app. And I think
with these three legs, we can basically
bring it everywhere.
>> That's a really important addition to
what we just said. Something you didn't
mention that I find really exciting also
is this idea that we can use our plug-in
architecture or sort of leverage the
general principles behind it to create
one base common ground that can
integrate all the other existing common
ground instances. We could build a
decentralized
hub for all existing common ground
instances without even having to build a
synchronization protocol. is really
leveraging our embedding infrastructure
to embed other common grounds into one
sort of meta common ground. It seems
quite feasible that we can do this and I
think it would be really neat to both
have self-hosted instances but still
have one sort of meta instance that
allows me to discover all those
self-hosted instances. This is also a
really exciting and sort of necessary
building block for this vision that
we're pursuing. The general idea is that
when you have your own common ground
instance somewhere, let's say it's your
home instance or you may even have two
or three home instances, then you can
also bring communities on content from
other instances into your sidebar and
let's say so you can achieve quite a
level of federation with that.
>> That's really cool. So there is a lot of
ideas how we can take this further. It
all hinges on the community being ready
to support this. This is now becoming a
public good. So it really depends on the
community supporting us or supporting
itself really. Us as the founders of
course we will stay very much involved.
Our heart and soul is in this project.
We think now is the time to try this. We
have a strong community that loves us
and uses us every day. We have a token
out there and we have all the necessary
ingredients to try it and this will be
the attempt to do it. We hope that you
accompany us on this journey, that you
support us on this journey, and that you
can see yourself be really deeply
involved in this project because that's
really what we need. So, thank you
everybody. We're really excited that
you're on this journey with us, and see
you on Common Ground.
>> Thank you everyone. See you on common
ground.